{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Nova Mono;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red51\green51\blue51;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red65\green131\blue196;\red102\green102\blue102;\red119\green119\blue119;\red37\green37\blue37;\red11\green0\blue128;\red17\green85\blue204;}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont4\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf1\b\f0\fs28\lang9 Sonda's NSS7 Classroom Notes on Databases \b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb480\sa240\sl288\slmult0\qc\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Introduction to Databases\cf1\highlight0\b0\f2\fs32\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb340\sa240\sl294\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 What is a database?\cf1\highlight0\f2\fs26\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b0\f0\fs24 A database is a data store. Databases logically organize data into an abstraction of real-world concepts.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Database is often abbreviated to DB.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb340\sa240\sl294\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 What is a DBMS?\cf1\highlight0\f2\fs26\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b0\f0\fs24 A DBMS is a database management system.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Databases and database management systems are different concepts. The database is the data and the metadata (for example, indexes) about that data.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 The database management system is the software used to access and manipulate the data stored in the database. This is typically referred to as the{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete#Database_applications"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul  }}}}{\cf5\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete#Database_applications"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul CRUD operations}}}}\cf2\ulnone\f0\fs24  (create, read, update, delete).\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb260\sa240\sl343\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 ACID\cf6\highlight0\f2\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf7\highlight3\b0\f0 In computer science, ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability) is a set of properties that guarantee that database transactions are processed reliably. In the context of databases, a single logical operation on the data is called a transaction. For example, a transfer of funds from one bank account to another, even involving multiple changes such as debiting one account and crediting another, is a single transaction. -- Wikipedia: ACID\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb340\sa240\sl294\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 What are the types of databases?\cf1\highlight0\f2\fs26\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b0\f0\fs24 In this class, we will be focusing on relational databases. However, there are many different types of databases that are suited to different specialized purposes.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 There is no "perfect" database type. Different datasets demand different ways of storing and accessing that data.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Many database management systems combine the properties of various types of databases. For example, PostgreSQL is primarily a relational database system, however it can act as document-oriented database, spatial database, and distributed database as needed.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb260\sa240\sl343\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Relational Databases\cf6\highlight0\f2\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b0\f0 Relational databases are databases that are based on the relational model, in which all data is stored in tuples (ordered lists of elements) and relations.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Relational database data is stored in tables with specific schemas (specifications of exactly what kind of data is stored) and relationships (between tables).\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Relational databases are particularly strong at storing and querying highly structured data that have rich relationships.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL are among the more famous relational database systems.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb220\sa240\sl335\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Object & Object-Relational Databases\cf6\highlight0\b0\f2\fs22\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Object databases store data in the form of serialized Objects, rather than relational (table-oriented) data. Object-Relational databases take a hybrid approach. They are oriented towards storing objects and program state from object-oriented languages.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb220\sa240\sl335\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Graph Databases\cf6\highlight0\b0\f2\fs22\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Graph databases are databases that store data based on graph data structures. They are particularly suited to storing graph-oriented data, such as computer networks and social network connections.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb260\sa240\sl343\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Document-oriented Databases\cf6\highlight0\f2\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b0\f0 Document-oriented databases are, as oriented towards storing semi-structured document-oriented data. Most document databases are schema-less and don't validate the format of data that is stored, which makes indexing and cross-referencing data more difficult than in highly structured relational databases.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Document-oriented databases are particularly well-suited to storing information about actual documents and to storing data that is an a key-value format, such as work queues.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Redis and MongoDB are among the more popular document-oriented databases.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb220\sa240\sl335\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 XML Databases\cf6\highlight0\b0\f2\fs22\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 XML databases store information in an XML format and tend to be document-oriented.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb260\sa240\sl343\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Spatial Databases\cf6\highlight0\f2\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf7\highlight3\b0\f0 Spatial databases are databases that are optimized to store and query data that represents objects defined in a geometric space. (Wikipedia: Spatial database)\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Spatial databases are particularly strong at storing data related to locations and calculating their proximity to each other.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb340\sa240\sl294\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 How can databases be stored?\cf1\highlight0\f2\fs26\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb260\sa240\sl343\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Centralized\cf6\highlight0\f2\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b0\f0 This is the closest thing we have to a default storage pattern. Centralized databases are stored and served from a single location/machine.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Many databases systems can start with a centralized storage model and later be expanded to act as a distributed database.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb260\sa240\sl343\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 In-Memory Databases\cf6\highlight0\f2\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b0\f0 In-memory databases store all (or most) of their data in-memory (i.e. RAM). The information stored in an in-memory database is lost when the database is restarted.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 These databases are particularly suited to storing temporary work queues and other processing-oriented information.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb260\sa240\sl343\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Distributed Databases\cf6\highlight0\f2\par

\pard\sa240\sl349\slmult0\cf2\highlight3\b0\f0 Distributed databases are stored across multiple machines and locations. This storage mechanism is used to speed up access and aid in disaster recovery.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf2\highlight3\f0\fs24 Distributed databases increase maintenance and administrative costs, as managing databases and fail-over across many locations typically requires more specialized knowledge.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\par
\b\f0 Wednesday, January 7, 2015:\b0\f1\par
\par
\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 DATABASES\highlight0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab What are databases?  A type of data store.  Data store is a place we can store data.\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab Data Stores:\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li940\sl276\slmult1\highlight3\f0\fs24 Databases\highlight0\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}\highlight3 File systems\highlight0\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1660\sl276\slmult1\highlight3 File formats: jpg / png / csv / json\highlight0\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}\highlight3 What makes file formats different?  The way it\rquote s encoded.\highlight0\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}\highlight3 Different file formats have different ways of identifying themselves and storing stuff.  \ldblquote Shabang\rdblquote  for instance.\highlight0\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}\highlight3 CSV stands for comma separated values.  Typically looks a lot like an excel spreadsheet.  Except each item is separated by a comma.  So\'85 Title,         Name,   SSN\highlight0\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\highlight3\tab\tab professor, xavier, 123\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab\tab doctor,     whatev, 456\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li940\sl276\slmult1\highlight3\f0\fs24 CD\highlight0\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 We care about getting data and getting it quickly.  \highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 ACID: A set of database properties.\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\i\f0\fs24 --Atomicity\i0\f3  \f4\u8594?\f3  \cf8\f0 requires that each transaction be "all or nothing": if one part of the transaction fails, the entire transaction fails, and the database state is left unchanged.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\i\f0\fs24\lang9 --Consistency\i0\f3  \f4\u8594?\f3  Everybodies data ends up on the \lquote disk\rquote  in a consistent manner.\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\i\f0\fs24\lang9 --Isolation\i0\f3  \f4\u8594?\f3  Should be isolated to just what I\rquote m working on (so processes don\rquote t spill over into each other as they work on different things in the database).\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\i\f0\fs24\lang9 --Durability\i0\f3  \f4\u8594?\f3  Once I put data into the database, it will still be there.\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\lang9\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 From Wikipedia\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\f0\fs24 In{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul  }}}}{\cf9\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul computer science}}}}\cf8\ulnone\f0\fs24 , ACID ({\cf9\i{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomicity_(database_systems)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul Atomicity}}}}\i\f0\fs24 ,{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consistency_(database_systems)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul  }}}}{\cf9\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consistency_(database_systems)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul Consistency}}}}\cf8\ulnone\f0\fs24 ,{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isolation_(database_systems)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul  }}}}{\cf9\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isolation_(database_systems)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul Isolation}}}}\cf8\ulnone\f0\fs24 ,{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durability_(database_systems)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul  }}}}{\cf9\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durability_(database_systems)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul Durability}}}}\cf8\ulnone\i0\f0\fs24 ) is a set of properties that guarantee that{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_transaction"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul  }}}}{\cf9\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_transaction"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul database transactions}}}}\cf8\ulnone\f0\fs24  are processed reliably. In the context of {\cf9{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul databases}}}}\f0\fs24 , a single logical operation on the data is called a transaction. For example, a transfer of funds from one bank account to another, even involving multiple changes such as debiting one account and crediting another, is a single transaction.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\cf8\highlight3\f0\fs24 Different databases treat different parts of ACID with various levels of respect.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Different kinds of Databases\cf1\highlight0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24\tab\tab\cf1\highlight0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 NAME\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 PRO\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 CON\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 OTHER NOTES\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\row\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Excel Spreadsheet\cf1\highlight0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 (not a real database, but a data store)\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Accessible\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Inconsistent\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl276\slmult1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 CSV\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl276\slmult1\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\strike\f0\fs24 ACID\cf1\highlight0\b0\strike0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Really primitive format\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl276\slmult1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 MySQL\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 ACID\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl276\slmult1\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Relational Database\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\row\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Cassandra\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Fast\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 No promise of durability\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl276\slmult1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Postgres\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Full durability\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Sacrifices Speed\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Relational Database\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\row\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 MS SQL Server\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl276\slmult1\cell\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Relational Database\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\row\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Mongo\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl276\slmult1\cell\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f4\fs24\u8594?\f3  Storage similar to json\cf1\highlight0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\b\f4\fs24\u8594?\f3  Document oriented\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\lang9\cell\row\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Sqlite\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl276\slmult1\cell\cell\cell\row\trowd\trgaph100\trrh1\trpaddl100\trpaddr100\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx3000\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx5280\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7245\clcfpat1\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw12\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9345 
\pard\intbl\sl240\slmult1\qc\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 SQL\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Structured Query Language\cf1\highlight0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 (NOT A DATABASE)\cf0\highlight0\b0\f5\fs22\cell 
\pard\intbl\sl276\slmult1\cell\cell\row 
\pard\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f1\par
\cf8\highlight3\f0\fs24 Database Tradeoffs\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\f3\fs24\tab\f4\u8594?\f3  How ACIDic?\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\f3\fs24\lang9\tab\f4\u8594?\f3  How fast?\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\f3\fs24\lang9\tab\f4\u8594?\f3  What kind of data?\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\f3\fs24\lang9\tab\f4\u8594?\f3  What kind of durability?\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\lang9\par
\cf8\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Document Oriented vs Relational Database\cf1\highlight0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\cf8\highlight3\f3\fs24 Relational \f4\u8594?\f3  Stored very similar to how data is stored in, say, excel.  In tables or a grid that relate to other tables or grids.  Instead of storing all the data in one place, you split it up.  For instance:  Book grid with title / author / year stored in the table.  Another grid with book #, chapter, and chapter text stored there.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\lang9\par
\cf8\highlight3\f3\fs24 Document Oriented \f4\u8594?\f3  Like a json blob.  In this example, the whole book is stored here.  In document oriented, there is no schema.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\lang9\par
\cf8\highlight3\f0\fs24 Eliza:  At least 95% of the time, you want a relational database.  But in the modern age, you don\rquote t have to choose between one or the other.  Things like Postgres allow for storing document oriented stuff in a relational database.  We will be focusing on relational databases.\cf1\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24\par
\cf1\highlight0\fs22 Friday, January, 9 2015:\b0\f1\par
\par
\b\f0 Import SQLite File:\b0\f1\par
\f0 -download sqlite task manager\f1\par
\f0 -save the northwind database on your computer\f1\par
\f0 -open sqlite task manager\f1\par
\f0 -create a database by giving it a name and saving it\f1\par
\f0 -press import button to import northwind file as an sql\f1\par
\f0 -you should have 13 tables\f1\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 TYPES of RELATIONAL DATABASES:\b0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f3\fs24 MySQL \f4\u8594?\f3  loose on rules\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f3\fs24\lang9 Postgres \f4\u8594?\f3  strict\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f3\fs24\lang9 MS SQL \f4\u8594?\f3  proprietary\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f3\fs24\lang9 Sqlite \f4\u8594?\f3  light weight\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f3\fs24\lang9 Oracle \f4\u8594?\f3  wrote their own spec\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\lang9\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 We have currently been thinking about storing data in a document oriented way (think JSON).  We will be moving towards Tables as the overriding metaphor, as stored data will be kept in a tabular way (or at least mimic this structure).\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 Each database consists of \i N\i0  number of tables.  Each row in a table can be referred to as a \ldblquote tuple\rdblquote , or just a row of data if you prefer.  \highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 Columns have\'85\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab name (i.e. id, title)\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab type (i.e. integer, varchar)\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab constraints (i.e. NOT NULL, UNIQUE, etc)\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab (Typically in databases we almost always have an ID column, and they are typically sequential.)\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 A database with one table is not very useful.  What we end up doing in databases is having multiple tables that often relate to each other in some way.\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 (Next our class did the northwind sqlite relationship mapping project)\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\highlight3\b\f0\fs24 Talking to Database\highlight0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 Basic Structure of a SQL statement:\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab SELECT ______   \highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab FROM ______\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab JOIN ______ ON ______\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24\tab WHERE ______\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 Example:  SELECT * FROM employees WHERE name LIKE \lquote b%\rquote\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\highlight3\f0\fs24 LIKE means \ldblquote matches a pattern\rdblquote  and % means \ldblquote starts with\rdblquote  (wildcard).\highlight0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\highlight3\f0\fs24 Example 2: SELECT{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://products.id/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul  }}}}{\cf10\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://products.id/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul products.id}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 ,{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://products.name/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul  }}}}{\cf10\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://products.name/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul products.name}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  FROM order_details JOIN products ON  order_details.product_id ={{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://products.id/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul  }}}}{\cf10\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://products.id/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf4\cf4\ul products.id}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  WHERE order_details.order_id = 10250\highlight0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\cf2\highlight3\b\f0\fs24\par
}
 